Hi.
Let's continue with
our look at the case
Alternative Distribution
at Sugar Sweets,
Incorporated Now just a
recap where we are at the
moment: in the last
session we looked at the
Sugar Sweets alternative
distribution concept.
Then we looked at Sugar
Sweets' estimates of how
many retailers would
participate and what the
sales of the retailers
would be to end consumers.
Now we're going to
conclude the case by
looking at Sugar Sweets
and the cost that Sugar
Sweets would incur,
their revenues, and their
expected or anticipated
profits, and we'll also
talk about some other
factors that affect this
decision from the
standpoint of Sugar Sweets.
Now, the next several
slides have an enormous
number of calculations in
them and I'm not really
going to go through the
detail of each of the
calculations on
each of the slides.
Now after this session is
completed, you can go to
the course website and
you will find there a file
that has all of these
slides included so that
you can see the detail of
the calculations that I've
conducted in the
Sugar Sweets analysis.
The first thing we need
to do is to determine the
number of orders that
Sugar Sweets expects it
will receive from
retailers as retailers
need to be supplied with
the product to meet the
demand of the, the,
the consumers.
And so I've taken data
from ah, our last, our
last session and keeping
in mind that Sugar Sweets
expects some of the
retailers to perform well
above average and others
to perform below average
and some to be average
performers, from that data
we find that in terms of
the large display packs,
Sugar Sweets expects
that in the trial period
there'll be slightly over
22,000 retailers who will participate.
Ah, we also find then that
of course that in terms of
the initial orders from
these re - from these
retailers who want the
large display packs, the
initial order would
clearly be slightly over
22,000 and these orders
would have to be fulfilled
by Sugar Sweets through
one of its two alternative
ah, networks of
distribution centers.
Now during, during
the trial period, the
retailers will have to
place reorders to
restock their display
cases and if we look at
the number of reorders
from the different ah,
performing - performance
levels we, we find that
during the trial period
we expect, or Sugar Sweets
expects to have over
110,000 reorders of the
large display packs.
Ah, on the other hand,
following the same basic
process and the same basic
logic, during the trial
period ah, they expect
that they'll have slightly
over 27,000 retailers
who will want the small
display packs.
So the initial orders from
those retailers will be
slightly over 27,000
orders and then given the
fact that these are the
small display packs, they
will have to fulfill many
more reorders from the retailers.
In fact, during the
pretrial or during the
trial period, over
292,000 reorders.
And then there's the
situation after the
post-trial period.
And keeping in mind that
not all of the retailers
who, who began the program
will continue after the
six-month trial period; in
fact the estimate on the
part of Sugar Sweets
is that after the trial
period, there will be
a little over 12,000
retailers who will want
the large display packs
and they will need to
place about 7 - a little
over 73,000 reorders
during the six-month
post-trial period.
In terms of the small pack
retailers: again there
will be a dropout rate,
so there'll be close to
15,000 retailers remaining
in the program for, for
wanting the small display packs.
And to resupply the, these
retailers who want the
small display packs will
involve filling over
175,000 reorders.
So to summarize, what's the summary to all of this process?
What Sugar Sweets expects
is that during the first
year it will have a
total number of orders to
fulfill on the large
display pack of 205,000,
almost 206,000.
And for the small display
packs it will have 400,
almost 495,000 orders to fill.
So given these estimates,
Sugar Sweets anticipates
that its revenue from
sales of the large packs
will be over $42
million dollars.
It anticipates that its
revenue from sales of the
small display packs
including the reorders
will be almost $57 million
dollars for total revenue
of a little over $99
million dollars.
Now we have to
look at the cost.
Now we do have two
alternative ah, logistics
networks, one involving
three distribution
centers, the other
involving four
distribution centers.
Let's look at the
three-distribution-center alternative.
Their estimate of cost of
filling the orders for the
large display packs is a
little over $2 million and
their estimate of
logistics costs for the
small packs, display packs, is a little over $5 million.
So the total logistics
cost involved will be
slightly over $7 million.
Again, with annual
revenue of $99 million.
But of course there's
also the production cost.
And if we look at the
production cost of the
large packs and the
small packs combined, the
production cost is over
$87 ½ million dollars.
Finally, there's the cost
involved in the display
ah, the display cases
themselves, which total
for both the large
displays and the small
displays a little over
$1.2 million dollars.
If we add all of the cost
up - the production cost,
the display cost, and the
logistics cost - we have
total cost of
almost $96 million.
We had revenue of slightly
over 90, $99 million, so
the estimated profit at
Sugar Sweets for the ah,
alternative using three distribution centers is $3,154,928.
If you use similar logic
for the four distr -
four-distribution-center
alternative, you actually
have a slightly larger profit of a little over $3,330,000.
So the profitability
analysis conducted by
Sugar Sweets ah, does make
this alternative
distribution channel
program ah, look somewhat
attractive in terms
of profitability.
It'll add, in their
estimate, given the market
research they've done,
it will add over three
million dollars to the
profitability of the, of
the organization.
What else do we
have to consider?
Well, in the real
situation on which Sugar
Sweets is based, one of
the first things that was
noticed is that the
analysis was based on
production cost, logistics
cost, and cost of the displays.
There was some other cost
that were actually not
even included in the, in
their initial analysis.
There'd been little
consideration given to the
fact that ah, Sugar Sweets
was going to have to
establish a call center,
a telemarketing center in
order to, to recruit
potential retailers and
also to actually take or
receive the orders and
reorders from retailers.
They really hadn't thought
through all the different
functions that the company
was going to have to perform.
They were so used to the
fact that they, they dealt
with the candy and tobacco
jobbers, they really
forgot about the fact that
they were now going to
have to take over many
of the functions that the
candy and tobacco
jobbers were performing.
There are also a lot of risks that they needed to consider.
First of all, the entire
analysis ah, is heavily
reliant on their, their
assumptions related to the
number of retailers who
will participate and the
number of sales made to
consumers, the number of
orders, et cetera.
And if those assumptions
are incorrect ah, their,
the entire analysis
is quite flawed.
One of the questions that
if - that you may remember
or one of the points you
may remember in the case
is that Sugar Sweets
was basing the, their
estimates on retailer
participation on the fact
that retailers would
be very anxious to
participate because they'd
be able to earn high
profits from this high
margin item, impulse item,
rolls of candy, ah,
chewing gum, things of
that sort.
But if you really conduct
an analysis of this, this
program from the retail,
retailers' standpoint,
it's really not a
high-profit situation for
the retailer.
For example, we earlier
had said that the typical
retailer, an average
retailer would have annual
sales of $3,640.
Yet if you look closely at
the cost of the product to
that retailer, at $205
per, per pack, buying 16
packs a year to fulfill
consumer demand, the
retailers' product cost
alone is almost $3,300,
leaving the retailer a
profit, or at least a
margin, of $360.
My question to you is are
the retailers being well
compensated for
participating in this
program considering the
things they are going to
have to do now in order to
ah, get the product from
Sugar Sweets.
They're going to have be
their, their own inventory
control managers, they're
going to have to go
through to the time and effort to place calls for reorders.
They have to receive the orders. They have to unpack the orders.
They have to restock
the display shelves.
And we haven't even
considered the fact that
this may well be the type
of product of which there
is a fair amount of, of
pilferage and therefore a
lot of the product may,
let's say, disappear and
not represent an actual sale.
So the question is, are
the retailers really being
well compensated for their participation in the program.
A conclusion to the
Sugar Sweets' case.
If you think about the
changing environment that
Sugar Sweets was facing
and you think about the
actual consumer buying
process for this type of
product ah, an impulse
item, an item that
consumers don't really
think about buying until
they're exposed to
it, it's likely very
appropriate that some form
of distribution that gets
the product into different
types of retail outlets in
fact is quite appropriate.
However, in our analysis
of the alternative being
considered by Sugar Sweets
suggests to me at least,
that the, their proposed
solution is not very
likely to succeed.
Now subsequent to the
actual situation described
in Sugar Sweets - and
Sugar Sweets also came to
the conclusion that that
solution was not likely to
succeed - Sugar Sweets
prepared a, a lot of
information and a lot of
data to present to their
existing distribution
channel partners, the
candy and tobacco
distributors, and through
a result of a lot
of discussion and
negotiation, many of
those jobbers came to the
conclusion that it would
in fact be in their best
interest to extend their
efforts in selling to, to
retailers and attempt
- and in fact were very
successful in placing
Sugar Sweets' product into
a lot of outlets that
previously had never been
considered as likely
types of outlets for Sugar
Sweets' products.
Today you can find the
type of product sold by
Sugar Sweets in a lot of
places that it was not
available at that time.
You can find snack
products in hardware stores.
products in video rental stores.
You can find them in toy
stores and many, many
other types of outlets
that prior to the time of
this case had never been
considered as appropriate
outlets for snack-type products.